# Entry 1

Blog Entry One:

  I have always been intrigued by the way the world works. Ever since I was 6 I would ask my mother of how the Earth rotated, or why exactly the sky and the ocean had a gradient of blue. Was it because they weren’t feeling too good or was it because it was their favorite color? No, it was because of the reflection of rays. Of course I didn’t understand it then, but I was determined to find out. It started with food coloring and ended up with molecule shapes and bonding configurations. I had a tiny brain, not knowing much being a 6 year old at the time, but didn't stop me from looking into it. 

  I have always had a double-sided perspective. With my mom being a doctor and my dad being a software engineer, I have been subconsciously taught into thinking of all the possible outcomes and drawbacks that any given situation provides. I have been taught to experiment and not be afraid of errors, for they are pathways to growth, even if I didn’t fully understand the issue at hand. My parents once told me “Staying in your comfort zone doesn’t get you to think, it is in the challenges that you learn who you are truly meant to be and what you are fully capable of. We didn’t wake up in our positions, it was the errors and the humiliation of getting those errors in which we learned how to embrace failure and become who we are today. It is those errors that gave us our authority." And then it clicked, I realized I want to become the greatest errorist alive! I just followed the procedure: question, gather info, experiment, conduct, repeat - that is how I decided to live my life from thereon. Sure there was so much disappointment that I had to go through,due to all the errors I had to deal with and solve, but I learned to find a solution and build on that. Absolutely nothing compares to the sense of pure accomplishment.

  When deciding my project topic I had to focus on logical reasoning and attention to detail. Every day we go to school to learn about the mynute details of life and how they contribute to the more common things in life. I want to think about those mynute details. For instance, what if we didn’t take a shower for a whole year. What would be the side effects of that? How could that have been prevented? How can we sustain that? Well, that's an interesting question, In English class, we learned that during the Middle Ages, colonists didn’t have access to soap and used only water. This was enough, but fast forward to the Bubonic Plague, one of the contributions to the population decrease was the use of water, along with the introduction of pests on ships which also went through the water pipes- this we learn in History. As we head into Science class, we learn that the chemical composition of water may irritate the skin when combined with particles not recognized by the skin receptors. Taking in all that knowledge, we can question this process- what if the ships were checked, including the people boarding, along with the communal pipes in which water was coming from? Would that be enough to prevent the bubonic plague death? Or, what if, fast forward, the people took the murky water and lying dead people scattered on the streets as an indication to sanitize the streets. Would that decrease the number of deaths yet to be included? These questions may have been asked before, but no one has ever given enough care to research the lingering what-ifs and give further insight to prevent this from happening once again. History does repeat itself, and science is closely related to history. Moreover, history wouldn't repeat if people weren’t so reluctant to learn and apply what they learned. I want to help solve that issue!

  I will be choosing many sources to gather my information including National Geographic, Bill Nye, Khan Academy, and my Big History Project essays. All are extremely reliable and are taught/written with credibility. I am a visual learner so the library textbooks will be useless to me. In regards to my engineering design process, I have written down all the topics I will be researching. Some are simple and others are intricate. I will research in-depth for each topic. The list of topics is ongoing but as if now I have 73 topics I want to research. I have already completed 5 topics with the best of my capabilities. This includes the Chernobyl Explosion, the Manhatten Project, The Bubonic Plague, The Climate Change issue, and the Atlantic Slave Trade. I have explored all the possibilities surrounding the events and have synthesized a possible series of events that could have been taken to either prevent the situation from happening or stop the situation from progressing. I have also been looking into JQuery. I want to make my website interactive in the hope to make my 6-year-old self proud and make an app that would be user-friendly for all- I want to get far with this idea but I am not sure what I am heading in for. On the bright side, JQuery isn’t as difficult as I originally thought - it resembles much of what Javascript provides.

[Home](../README.md)
